so we've been here for mashing for about
10 minutes and I want to show you
fermentation is so easy before your old
can do it this is my older son Jacob but
you have some daikon for about 10
minutes and Jacob hey how you doing
doing good they're getting a little
tired you've been doing a lot of mashing
fermentation and mashing and builds are
strong arms and kids and uses that
energy that they all have that is
boundless and puts it into something
good what I want you to see in this is
that he's mashed it to a point where
there's free liquid see that that's all
from the daikon it didn't add anything
that's about that about means that this
is mashed so this is about ready to go
in show me that free liquid again just
like I see it see that in there yep
that's perfect
the boys done a good job so we're gonna
add in some spices that's about maybe
half a teaspoon of allspice right there
and that's about a teaspoon or so of
coriander seed now if you don't feel
like mashing it yourself in a mortar and
pestle you of course can buy actual
mashed product but as you can see Jacob
has been also mashing the allspice and
the coriander seed very nicely so now
we're going to take this we're going to
add this into the mixture stir it up
real quick and we are almost done here
okay so now we're on the last part and
basically we're going to be giving the
ferment it's home
so we take the mason jar you don't have
to use a mason jar there's Hirsh crocks
there's all kinds of other things that
you can use I like this it's very simple
and it holds the product well however
there's many options that you can use
however we're using the ball jar for
right now so we just take it and we put
it in
it's like you got a good deal here and
you shove it in there we haven't been
very gentle to it to this point we're
not gonna start now so push it
shove it in there I did it Willie oh
yeah you did a good job in mashing a gym
you are an awesome fermenter now what I
want to show you something very
important if you notice the level of the
liquid is above the solids you always
want that anything that is above the
solids is going to rot
you don't want rotting we're not trying
to rot food here or trying to ferment it
so you want it below the lactobacilli
are all going to be below the surface of
Earth so now that it is filled up we
cover it up and also what's important
we've got about an inch inch and a half
here on the above the top so this is
going to bubble like crazy and so you
want some space in here because if you
put it up too close to the top it will
actually spill over while it's
fermenting and I definitely suggest that
you put this bottle somewhere into a
glass casserole because as Kathy has
found out many times I've placed a
fermenting jar somewhere and it's just
bubbled over and it's gotten all over
counters and stuff and that was my
secondary containment idea yes that was
her idea so anyway we're done now you
just take this put it in an area where
there's not much of any direct sunlight
temperature-wise you want to be between
65 to 80 degrees you don't really want
it to be below 65 degrees it's not going
to ferment quick enough if it doesn't
remember now if something else can
happen to it
ie mold or other bacteria so 65 degrees
is pretty much the lowest that you want
to
once this is fermented and we like to
ferment this one for two to four weeks
minimum it's ready and then you just put
it in the fridge and eat out of it from
for as often as you want until it's gone
and the one thing to note about this
daikon recipe it tastes great but it can
be really stinky there's going to be a
sulfur smell to it
if you get that sulfur smell it's fine
it's good you it actually worked but
just so that you know it if it doesn't
smell all that great there's nothing
wrong with it well anyway thank you so
much for listening in to ferment this
I'm Scott the founder of Zook a live
foods and thank you so much and ferment
on take care